Scavanger Hunt assignment

Sharang Ranjan
CIS 440
IT Profession Scavenger Hunt

1.	SCRUM Meeting – The 5 Dysfunctions of a Team by Michael Lorsch 
The meeting was held at Axosoft on November 4. For this particular meeting, we had a guest speaker, Michael Lorsch, who went over the topic of The 5 Dysfunctions of a Team, which was a book written by Patrick Lencioni. He talked about two main requirements that need to be fulfilled for success, smartness and being healthy. I liked one of his quotes where he said that a company can have the smartest of the people but if the organization is not healthy, it will not prosper. I agree with this statement and I believe that this is true with many startups these days. It is really important for startups to understand that they need to have a strong organization structure and a good company culture and everybody can prosper thereafter. He also talked about 5 behaviors that every team should have which are: trust, conflict, commitment, accountability, and result. Each behavior is dependent on the one before it. The team ca 
I learnt a lot from meeting and it was very informative. The guest speaker was very kind and really engaged with the audience. The topic at hand was easy to understand and can be applicable to even beginners. The presentation was well organized and at the end of the meeting, the audience had the chance to ask questions to the panelists. Another great lesson I learnt after hearing to Michael was that a leader must confront difficult issues with the team and seek the opinions of the team members to solve them.


2.	SCRUM Meeting – Scrum Master Panel 
I attended one of the scrum meetings at InfusionSoft in Chandler on November 20th. There were 4 panelists and 45 people attended the meeting. The panel had a variety of people working at different places including one at Liberty Distribution, Ticketmaster, InfusionSoft, and Workiva. The panel had to answer questions such the challenges of a Scrum Master and the optimal number of teams that a ScrumMaster can handle. The meeting started with each panelist introducing themselves and sharing their job responsibilities and expertise with the audience.  The panel seemed to have an agreement of 2 teams for number of teams but had different answers for their own unique challenges. One master explained that teams tend to lack ownership of their actions, so nothing gets done. Other masters said that a lot of the teams can butt heads with each other because of different mentalities and don’t solve their arguments. They went on to suggest that many teams need maturity. Another master said that some of his SCRUM users on his teams lacked maturity since they just came out of college and did not have the experience on tackling problems. 
The optimal number of teams should be 2 however they can be 3 as well depending on the project. 2. The panelists consisted of people working in diverse industries and sharing experiences around SCRUM/ They seemed to have great knowledge to share as well as fun stories to tell of their experiences. Also they advised that if someone wants to become a scrum master that person needs to have experience in multiple projects and have the ability to manage teams effectively, if they want to become a scrum master. One of the scrum masters quoted that “Let the team fail, let them learn from it. Ask questions from them. Make the team explain, pop quiz them”

3.	SQL Server Analysis Best Practices
I attended the desert code camp on October 18th. Desert Code Camp ran for about 8 hours and had several topic presentations each hour. The event was held at Chandler Community College. I attended the talk of Alan Faulkner who talked about different SQL server analysis practices. He went over different techniques such as using relational data source design, dimension designs, cube designs, and partition designs depending on the situation at hand. Certain designs have do’s and don’ts such as when using a dimension design, one should avoid using ErrorConfigurations with a KeyDuplicate. Also if analyzing with cube design then one should avoid creating multiple measure groups that have the same dimensionality and granularity. When using partition design, one should avoid a partition with more than 20 million rows and also having many small partitions in a measure group. At last he talked about Aggregation design that says that indexes must be multi-dimensional.
I thought the presentation was straight forward and simple, however it required extensive knowledge in SQL Server analysis before sitting down and listening to the speaker. There were very few people that attended this session and most were middle aged men and women who seemed very experienced on the topic. The talk is not recommended for beginners as you need to have extensive knowledge about the topic and have gained good practical knowledge. 

